# Class & Style Bindings

## Intro

Sometimes you need to manipulate an elements **classlist** and the inline **styles** you have set. Since these are strings you can use v-model to do that. However this can be messy so vue provides some special syntax to make this easier.

### HTML Classes

The are two approaches; using object syntax or using array syntax.

#### Object Syntax

This is where you bind the class attribute to an object. Where the keys are the names of the classes and the values are boolean flags in your data attribute. The object is a set of switches that you turn on and off.

```html
:class="{className: flag, 'a-class': active}"
```

You can also combine this with standard class attributes in the same html tag. Vue will know
how to resolve them. You don't even need to declare this object inline. It could be held in the data attribute of your vue object or the result of a computed property.

#### Array Syntax

Here the syntax differs a little. You provide an array to class where each item in the array is a key in data with it's value being a string classname. These are not switches as the object syntax provides. With this approach you don't have to seperateley list your fixed classes with a `class` attribute. You could apply them in the same array.

```html
:class="[wide, shadow, orange]"
```

One way of toggling these is to us a ternary operator.

```html
:class="[isActive? keyInData:'', anotherClass]"
```

In the above example `anotherClass` is applied unconditionally whereas `keyInData` is only applied if the `isActive` flag is set. The problem with this approach is that the binding can get quite long if you are trying to toggle many flags. To makes things simpler you can combine both syntaxes like so:

```html
:class="[{classNameKey: flagName}, className]"
```
