# Conditionals & Rendering Lists

## Conditional Rendering

### v-if

In Vue you can conditionally render markup using the `v-if` attribute.

```html
<h1 v-if="flag">title</h1>
<h2 v-else>another title</h2>
```

where flag is a property of data or a computed property. To work `v-else` must always come after a `v-if` or `v-else-if` statement.

When rendering conditional element Vue will try to reuse what it can. This can include common tags between the blocks. This can be a good thing for example when they share have an input element in common. Vue will resue the element and only update what is different. For example:

```html
<template v-if="loginType === 'username'">
 <label>Username</label> <input placeholder="Enter your username" />
</template>
<template v-else>
 <label>Email</label> <input placeholder="Enter your email address" />
</template>
```

In this example Vue will not replace one input element with the other. It will use the same one but only change the placeholder value. This has the effect of keeping whatever the user typed in between the two block being rendered.

If you want them to be completley unrelated and new; use a key attribute.

```html
<h1 key="title">title</h1>
```

### v-show

This directive is similar to `v-if` but unlike it, it does not remove the element from the div. instead it toggles the css display property.

In addition `v-if` will not render anything if the flag is `false` at runtime. Whereas `v-show` will always render a block at runtime. So `v-if` is costlier since it's changes the structure of the dom; doing this frequently is not a good thing. Use `v-if` if you expect it not to change very often. Use `v-show` otherwise.

## List Rendering

## v-for with Arrays

Use the `v-for` directive to constrol the rendering of the list of DOM elements based on an array property in data or coming from computed. You don't have to use `this` to reference the property, instead use it'name directly.

```html
<li v-for="(item, index) in array">{{item}}</li>
<li v-for="item of array">{{item}}</li>
```

Note that there are two different formats; `in` and `of` and index is optional. Vue supports all the standard Array manipulation prototype methods; both mutation `push, pop, shift, unshift, splice, sort, reverse` and non-mutating methods that return an array `filter concat slice`, when using these you replace the old array in the `data` property with the new one.

## v-for for Objects

You can use this directive with Objects too.

```html
<li v-for="(value, key, index) in object"></li>
```

Note that `key` and `index` are optional and that `index` comes from what is returned by `Object.keys()`

By default when Vue renders list items, it uses what is called an in place stratergy which tries to re-use properties instead of replacing them. This strategy is the most efficient. If the order matters they a key attribute needs to be added. Vue uses this key to update the positions and state of the relevant element. The `key` attribute would can be a number or string. It would ideally be the `id` of the object in question.

```html
<li v-for="(value, key, index) in object" :key="key"></li>
```
